Bon-jour tout le mond-e!
Adult mark: French class.
Bonjour, ma soeur rose.
Adult mark: I hated it.
Comment allez-vous?
[class muttering replies]
Adult mark: The
newfoundland accent
Was not meant to parlez-vous.
Can anyone in this class form
even one sentence in french?
Mr. Critch?
Adult mark: The only
french words I knew
Were the ones that meant
the same in english.
Je suis...
Allé à la matinée...
Avec... Ma fiancée...
Encore!
Adult mark: I barely
knew any french
But that was still more
than my french teacher knew.
Bien.
Bi-en!
Sister rose: Anyone else?
[laughs]
you're a brain, idiot.
Adult mark: There was nothing
more shameful at school
Than being smart.
You'll all have to do much
better before our european trip!
Adult mark: Each year,
the grade eights travelled
To europe for french immersion!
Who didn't love France?
France is a horrible place,
children.
Bicycles.
Nude statues.
The foul stench
of wine and cheese
Intermingling on the lips...
As they...
French kiss.
That is why I expect you to
behave the way jesus would have.
Like north americans!
Adult mark: I knew that
the french would get moi.
Romance, art,
jerry lewis movies?
I could reinvent myself there!
And maybe impress fox
with my "je ne sais quoi."
[accordion music]
Excusez-moi, madame?
Est-ce que je vous connais?
Croyez-vous en l'amour?
L'amour?
♪
L'amour est aussi
proche que mes lèvres.
Hey, dumbass!
Why is it so close?
What?
That can't be right.
Luckily,
we don't have to go to France,
For France has come to us.
Adult mark: St. Pierre
and miquelon
Is a tiny french island
Just 19 kilometres
off the coast of newfoundland.
What a rip!
That's not France.
En français!
Zut alors!
Ca c'est de la merde!
Adult mark: Fox was
fluent in swearing,
But sister rose
hadn't heard those words
In either language.
Excellent, fox.
When England won
the seven years' war in 1763,
They got newfoundland,
And France got these
two tiny islands.
So we are going to France.
Technically.
Adult mark: No eiffel tower,
no louvre.
My dreams were "fini."
It's three
friggin' hours on a bus!
You better sit with me.
Adult mark: Well,
then again...
I don't want to be
stuck with some loser.
Adult mark: Impossible!
N'est pas français.
♪
Please, can I go?
I don't know, mark,
it's awful far.
Almost four-hour drive
with the ferry.
Pop: Well...
I suppose I could
chaperone, you know?
I haven't been abroad before.
You had your chance
with two world wars.
Weren't too concerned about
seeing France back then,
Were ya?
Colour-blind.
I think it could be lovely
for him to see the world
Before he dies.
Whoa, who said anything
about dying here?!
I-I guess I could ask?
Hey, excellent.
Heh!
Now, just leave a little room
In your suitcase for duty-free.
Hm?
Hm.
So...?
Alright.
[exhales]
yes!
-Mike?
-Mm-hm?
I had a thought.
Mm-hm?
With mark and pop
gone to europe...
Oh, yeah.
And mike jr. At work...
Yes, yeah...
We're gonna have
the house all to ourselves...
Mm-hm.
Mary: All alone...
For the first time
in seventeen years.
We could get to bed
a little bit early.
I could use the sleep!
Windows stay closed.
No unscheduled bathroom breaks.
Like moses and the red sea,
this aisle will remain parted.
Those are the rules!
Excuse me, sister...
Do you mind if I just
squeeze past your arse?
Boys and girls!
[rock music]
Bonjour, mes amis!
Woo!
Next stop europe!
Excited?
It's not real France.
It's just a knock-off.
Oh, come on!
Where's your sense of adventure,
little miss red, huh?
Do you know what
st. Pierre is famous for?
Sucking?
No.
Rum running!
Prohibition!
See, booze used to be illegal
then, like drugs are today.
Oh no, st. Pierre was
a bootlegger's dream!
Now, quiz!
Who knows who al capone is?
The gangster?
Yeah!
He's robert deniro!
From the untouchables!
-Oh, yeah!
-Will you two shut it?
Go ahead, old man.
I mean, mr. Critch.
Hm, well,
he needed illegal booze
For his night clubs,
So he had 80 boats sneaking
300,000 cases a month from
st. Pierre to newfoundland,
And then they'd smuggle them
across the border to the states.
He got so rich he built a church
Just so that everyone
would look the other way.
Okay.
That's pretty bad-ass!
Oh, yeah.
Can we go see the church?
Sure, sister rose
would love that!
Adult mark: I was beginning
to doubt pop's reasons
For coming.
How do you know
so much about it?
I won't have you filling their
heads with legends and lies.
And I don't know what possessed
you to sign on as a chaperone,
But I know that you could
only be possessed by the devil.
Just clear the aisle, sister.
Those are the rules.
Adult mark: This was
going to be a long trip.
[accordion music]
♪
Adult mark: France!
Words escaped me.
Mostly because
I wasn't good at french.
Did we drive in a circle?
This place looks just like home.
This sucks.
Adult mark: I thought fox
would fall in love with France,
And me, but I guess some
things just don't translate.
[sister rose claps]
Écou-tez, l'enfants!
Main-tenant,
le français sale-ment!
Adult mark: French immersion
became submersion
As sister rose drowned
in the foreign tongue.
L'enfants!
Le museum!
Allez-vous, toute-lemonds!
Oh my lord.
I never realized
you had such a potty mouth.
[rock music sting]
Madame?
Avec moi?
The only thing that sucks
more than your french
Is this trip.
[seagull cawing]
Exotic.
Oh, no.
No--
Mary?
Who broke the table?
It's just the two of us tonight,
so I took the leaf out.
Hm?
[romantic music
with spanish guitar]
What's this?
French onion soup.
Alice lent me the bowls.
I figured everybody else
was in France,
So we should be too.
Onion soup?
I-I don't like onions.
There aren't any onions in it,
silly!
It's just hot water
and french onion soup mix!
What's all this, then?
Swiss cheese.
Swiss, french!
I need a passport
just to eat my supper!
Is there any turkey left?
You couldn't get laid out of
a chicken's arse, ya know that?
Good god!
I'm trying to be romantic,
ya arsehole!
When do we ever really talk?
All you ever do is talk!
Oh, and you never listen!
[phone rings]
I'll get it!
You couldn't get laid
in a cage full'a monkeys
With a fist full'a bananas!
Hello?
Operator: You have
a collect call from...
[rapidly] hey dad, it's me mark
and everything's okay
But a bird pooped on me
but that's good luck, bye!
Adult mark: Why pay
long distance
When you could jam
all you had to say
Into the space
for the caller's name?
Operator: Will you
accept the charges?
God, no.
Adult mark: It was like
an audio postcard.
Oh, that was mark.
He's fine.
Good.
No more interruptions.
You're gonna have
a romantic night tonight
If it friggin' kills ya!
[dial tone]
Phone's off the hook.
I know.
You know, dad...
A woman needs to be romanced.
Will you get out of it!
Les îles saint-pierre et
miquelon étaient une plaque
Tournante pour la contrebande
d'alcool vers les états-unis.
-What's she saying?
-Shh!
Des criminels notoires
s'y sont installés,
Notamment al capone.
She just said "al capone"!
Your pop was right!
Ah, yes!
Good ear.
Joyeux noël!
Y a-t-il des questions?
Madame?
Oui, madame?
Qu'est-ce que c'est?
Une guillotine.
Ça gère!
Oui, tres bien!
Brain!
What a loser!
Silence!
As you can see, my students
speak french fluently.
If you like, you could practice
your english for a bit?
[heavily accented]
uh... My english?
Uh, yes,
I speak english very well.
[mysterious music]
Al capone's hat.
Huh.
Is that so?
[mysterious music continues]
♪
If the nun can frig off,
so can we.
Excusez-moi?
Vous allez ou?
Sorry.
No speak-ez le french-ez.
Adult mark: Pop
was up to no good,
But this was my chance to show
fox my sophisticated side.
♪
[in a whisper]
patrick?
Patrick?
Rosy!
Aah!
Jesus!
Shh, they'll hear you,
for goodness sake.
Besides, we're in
a house of worship.
It's a little late for
you to find god, isn't it?
Somebody must be
looking down on me.
They brought me to you,
didn't they?
Oh, don't start!
Tell me the real
reason you're here.
[sighs]
[mysterious music]
Fine.
[sighs]
So, it was 1925.
You had just broken my heart,
so I came to st. Pierre,
Where I'd heard that this
capone fella needed some guys
To row rum out to the schooners
Where the coast guard
couldn't find 'em.
They were paying a fortune,
50 cents a gallon.
I'd never seen money like that.
I've never been good
with temptation.
♪
Well...
Are you coming to hear
the rest of my confession?
[chuckles]
[laughter]
Où est votre professeur?
Uh...
What's the french word
for "chaperone"?
Voilà!
Real french cheese.
Ha-ha!
You know, their cheese
doesn't come in slices.
No?
Uh, jars of whiz, then?
They have all kinds.
Camembert, brie,
and my favourite...
Bleu!
Ugh, that stuff reeks.
You really had it before?
Le fromage bleu?
All the time!
I have it with a cream cracker
with a cup of tea at bed time.
Goes down smooth.
Uh...
I think it's a little off.
It's supposed to be rotten,
dumbass.
But you knew that, right?
Yeah.
I prefer mine more off.
Mm-hm.
Take another bite.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah!
Yeah...
[retching]
Oh, for the love of god, mike,
I will shove
that radio up your arse
And that'll be
the only action you get.
Mike jr: [on radio]
and later on, we'll have
Nightline with ron pumphrey,
but first...
A request!
Listening to our son is a bit of
a mood-killer, there, casanova!
Mike jr: This is
mike critch jr.,
And this one goes out to mom,
from dad...
Which is kind of gross.
Here's the fureys, with
"when you were sweet sixteen."
Oh...
♪ ...As I've never
loved before ♪
[mary chuckles softly]
♪ since first I saw you
on the village... ♪
Oh, mike!
I guess I'm just
out of practice.
Can't blame me for being nervous
Around the prettiest
girl that I've--
Ah!
Shut up and help me
move the beds together.
♪ I love you as I loved you,
When you were
sweet sixteen... ♪
Adult mark: We were whatever
the french word for "lost" was.
Uh, I think it's this way.
Blaireau!
Arrête!
Adult mark: French bullies!
Like the fox brothers,
but with wine and smokes.
Bonjour, mes amis.
Du fromage... Bleu?
Tu parles français
comme une vache espagnole!
Ah, oui, oui.
Moi, aussi.
T'es un vrai sans-couilles!
Va te faire cuire un oeuf,
pompe à chiasse!
Casse-toi donc, branleur!
Adult mark: When it came
to french curse words,
Fox wasn't a brain,
she was a genius!
Ca m'est égal, espèce de
plouc!
I was just about to say
the same thing.
Here.
You must think I'm whatever
the french word for an idiot is.
[french pronunciation]
idiot.
No.
You were actually pretty cute.
So, can you just admit you can
read the street signs now?
[sighs]
it's this way.
Uh, what's a "branleur"?
You're not old enough to know.
-Sorry, come on.
-Oh...
Ritche: Ah!
Yes, here it is!
"abandonné."
Nous sommes...
Abandonnés!
Brain!
Ah, hurry up!
Oh, god, this was so much
easier the first time around.
Well, what's down there
that's so damn important?
Pop: A few bottles in my load
kind of got...
Went missing.
Well, they came looking
for me, but you know,
You really don't want to
be crossing al capone.
♪
Find him!
Pop: I left something
in this church.
I just wanted to see
whether it was still there.
Aah!
Yes!
Oh!
[chuckles]
They'd kill me
if they came back here!
But thank god they're all dead.
So screw 'em.
Now...
What do you know?
[cackling excitedly]
Someone will hear!
[loud crash]
aah!
Oh, jesus!
No, no!
Good god...
Oh!
Rats' piss!
-They've eaten the money!
-[distant voices]
My god, don't you people
ever clean these churches?
Someone's coming!
Alright, alright, alright.
There was one more little thing.
Leave it, you old fool!
Oh-ho!
Well!
Welcome, my old beauty!
Look at that!
Voice: Où êtes vous?
Aah!
Patrick, come on!
Hey!
Ay, ay, ay...
[both laughing]
Why do you pretend
you're not smart?
I mean, if I knew
french like that--
Every year, I get a new teacher,
And the first thing they say is,
"I taught your brothers."
From then on,
I'm stupid or I'm trouble.
If I do well,
they say I cheated, so...
Why bother?
That's not fair.
You shouldn't hide who you are.
Look who's talking.
I'm being serious.
You're not your brothers.
You're really special.
[laughs nervously]
what's-- what's that over there?
That's newfoundland!
Cool!
It's pretty.
From a distance.
It's beautiful.
Thought you said
France was better.
Sometimes you have to be
away from something for a while
To realize
how special it really is.
[soft, emotional music]
♪
Uh, France have the poodle,
But we have the newfoundland dog
and the labrador retriever.
We even have our own
time zone, and...
Oh, uh, we should get going.
♪
Pop: That guide... My god.
I didn't understand
a word she was saying!
[gasps]
You don't speak french, do you?
[laughs]
[uncorks bottle]
Woo-hoo-hoo!
Oh, shh!
Mmm.
Mmm...
-Mmm... Ooh!
-Oh my god!
Oh my...
Oh...
Ooh!
Yeah?
You know...
There are a lot of things
that don't get better with age,
But you, my dear, do.
Adult mark: Sometimes you
have to be away from something
To realize
just how special it is.
Because it's all too easy
to take the things we love
For granted.
Mike jr: [on radio]
and now, the weather!
Tomorrow until Tuesday,
we can expect light showers
On the avalon, followed by--
Change the station, will ya?
Mike jr: [on radio]
...And drizzle.
Headin' into the weekend--
Woo!
Sacred heart, my back!
Aah!
Adult mark: If you can
find someone to love you
For who you really are...
Well, that's what the french
call "l'amour vrai."
True love.
♪